Add documentation for the aws-ecs-1 variant (#1053)
bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket: QUICKSTART-ECS.md

Note down the instance role name in your account for the instructions below.

#### Enabling SSM

If you add SSM permissions, you can use Bottlerocket's default SSM agent to get a shell session on the instance.

To attach the role policy for SSM permissions, run the following (replacing INSTANCE_ROLE_NAME with the name of your instance role):

```
aws iam attach-role-policy \
   --role-name INSTANCE_ROLE_NAME \
   --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore
```

Next, to retrieve the instance profile name used to launch instances, run this:

```
aws iam list-instance-profiles-for-role --role-name INSTANCE_ROLE_NAME --query "InstanceProfiles[*].InstanceProfileName" --output text
```

Note this down as the INSTANCE_PROFILE_NAME for the final launch command.

### Connecting to your cluster

For the instance to be able to communicate with ECS, we need to make sure to configure the instance with the name of the cluster.

Create a file called `userdata.toml` with the following contents, where CLUSTER_NAME is the name of the cluster you created above (for example, "bottlerocket").

```
[settings.ecs]

> cluster = CLUSTER_NAME

Reviewer: I and sanika both landed on the same problem here, "" missing around CLUSTER_NAME and realized Instance was not getting attached to cluster. 
Just a Suggestion:
We can either add a note to validate the .toml file or make this as cluster = "CLUSTER_NAME". Even though example existed above it got neglected.

Reviewer: Another Suggestion: A link to addtional userdata [settings](https://github.com/bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket#settings) from Readme.md file.

Author: Done, thanks for the suggestions!

# Using a Bottlerocket AMI with Amazon ECS

> The [ECS variant](./aws-ecs.md) of Bottlerocket is currently in a developer preview phase and we're looking for your
> [feedback](https://github.com/bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket#contact-us).
> We'd love for you to try it out!

> [Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)](https://ecs.aws) is a highly scalable, fast, container management service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage containers on a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)](https://ecs.aws) is a highly scalable container management service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage containers on a cluster.
```
I think "fast" is implied enough, but if you love it, no comma after :)

Author: That sentence is taken verbatim from the first sentence [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html).  I think it's reasonable to keep them consistent, but if you think we should fix the comma in the developer guide as well we can do that too.

Reviewer 2: I think those official docs need to be more verbose than we do, in general, and we can pare down a bit overall.

Author: Done

Your containers are defined in a task definition which you use to run individual tasks or as a service.

This quickstart will walk through setting up an Amazon ECS cluster with Bottlerocket container instances (using the EC2 launch type).

> heck out the [Amazon ECS developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html) for more information on the supported launch types, additional details, and a broad overview of Amazon ECS.

Reviewer: *Check out the :)

Author: Oops!

> Check out the [Amazon ECS developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html) for more information on the supported launch types, additional details, and a broad overview of Amazon ECS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the [Amazon ECS developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html) for an overview of ECS.
```

Author: Done

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Also need aws-cli; copy from the existing quickstart?

Author: Done, though I took out the reference to v1 and the request to use a recent one; any CLI newer than January 2015 is recent enough to work with ECS.

Before you begin, be sure that you've completed the steps in
[Setting up with Amazon ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/get-set-up-for-amazon-ecs.html)

> and that your AWS user has either the permissions specified in the `AdministratorAccess` or the
> [Amazon ECS First Run Wizard Permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/security_iam_id-based-policy-examples.html#first-run-permissions)
> IAM policy example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and that your AWS user has either the `AdministratorAccess` role or the permissions specified in the [Amazon ECS First Run Wizard Permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/security_iam_id-based-policy-examples.html#first-run-permissions) IAM policy example.
```

Author: I made a slight tweak to your suggestion and linked to the [`AdministratorAccess` managed policy](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#policies/arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AdministratorAccess).

## Create a cluster

An Amazon ECS cluster is a logical grouping of tasks, services, and container instances.
For more information about clusters, see
[Amazon ECS clusters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/clusters.html).

You can create a cluster with the AWS CLI as follows:

```
aws ecs --region us-west-2 create-cluster --cluster-name bottlerocket
```

> Note: The command above and subsequent examples include the AWS region, so change it from `us-west-2` if you operate in another region.

> ## Finding an AMI

Reviewer 2: I think when official ECS AMIs are published, we should move this into a separate doc, shared with the k8s quickstart.

```

Next, to retrieve the instance profile name used to launch instances, run this:

```
aws iam list-instance-profiles-for-role --role-name INSTANCE_ROLE_NAME --query "InstanceProfiles[*].InstanceProfileName" --output text
```

Note this down as the INSTANCE_PROFILE_NAME for the final launch command.

### Connecting to your cluster

For the instance to be able to communicate with ECS, we need to make sure to configure the instance with the name of the cluster.

Create a file called `userdata.toml` with the following contents, where CLUSTER_NAME is the name of the cluster you created above (for example, "bottlerocket").

```
[settings.ecs]
cluster = "CLUSTER_NAME"
```

If you want to customize the behavior of your instance further, you can find the full set of supported settings [here](README.md#settings).

### Launch!

Now we can launch a Bottlerocket instance in our cluster!

There are a few values to make sure you change in this command:
* YOUR_KEY_NAME: your SSH keypair name, as registered with EC2
* SUBNET_ID: the subnet you selected earlier
  * If you chose a public subnet, either add `--associate-public-ip-address` to the command, or attach an Elastic IP afterward.

> * BOTTLEROCKET_AMI_ID: the Amazon-provided AMI ID you found above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* BOTTLEROCKET_AMI_ID: the Amazon-provided AMI ID you found above, or the ID of an AMI you registered
```

Author: Done

* userdata.toml: the path to the user data file you created earlier

> * INSTANCE_PROFILE_NAME: the IAM instance profile you created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* INSTANCE_PROFILE_NAME: the IAM instance profile you created, e.g. `ecsInstanceRole`
```
This is going to be the case for almost everyone, so I don't think it hurts to reinforce this here

Author: Done

# Using a Bottlerocket AMI with Amazon ECS

> The [ECS variant](./aws-ecs.md) of Bottlerocket is currently in a developer preview phase and we're looking for your
> [feedback](https://github.com/bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket#contact-us).
> We'd love for you to try it out!

[Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)](https://ecs.aws) is a highly scalable, fast, container management service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage Docker containers on a cluster.
You can host your cluster on a serverless infrastructure that is managed by Amazon ECS by launching your services or tasks using the Fargate launch type.

> For more control over your infrastructure, you can host your tasks on a cluster of Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances that you manage by using the EC2 launch type. Bottlerocket is available for the EC2 launch type.

Reviewer 3: Should Fargate be mentioned here where folks reading how one uses Amazon ECS with *Bottlerocket* hosts? I'm worried this may cause some confusion. 

I'd be happy with just the pointers to the Amazon ECS docs taking up the torch on mentioning Fargate rather than adding them here. Is this out of consistency with the rest of the Amazon ECS docs?

Author: Yep, this text was mostly lifted from the intro [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html).  I'm happy to change it to something else though.  (Or we could remove those sentences entirely?)

Reviewer 3: This intro should stay scoped to the ECS bits that relate to Bottlerocket usages (at least in the QUICKSTART sense). The sprinkled pointers to the docs can help expand the subject and are better off introducing Fargate as there's more context to branch off that direction.

My vote is to remove the sentences and replace them with a shorter service introduction. Maybe something like:

```markdown
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, fast, container management service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage containers on a cluster.
Your containers are defined in a task definition which you use to run individual tasks or as a service.

This quickstart will walk through setting up an Amazon ECS cluster with Bottlerocket container instances (using EC2 Launch Type).
Check out the [Amazon ECS developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html) for more information on the supported Launch Types, additional details, and a broad overview of Amazon ECS.
```

<details>
<summary>rendered</summary>

Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, fast, container management service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage containers on a cluster. Your containers are defined in a task definition which you use to run individual tasks or as a service.

This quickstart will walk through setting up an Amazon ECS cluster with Bottlerocket container instances (using EC2 Launch Type). Check out the [Amazon ECS developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/Welcome.html) for more information on the supported Launch Types, additional details, and a broad overview of Amazon ECS.

<details>

Author: Done, thanks for the suggestion!

aws ssm get-parameters --region us-west-2 \
   --names "/aws/service/bottlerocket/aws-ecs-1/x86_64/latest/image_id" \
           "/aws/service/bottlerocket/aws-ecs-1/x86_64/latest/image_version" \
   --output json | jq -r '.Parameters | .[] | "\(.Name): \(.Value) (updated \(.LastModifiedDate | gmtime | strftime("%c")) UTC)"'
```

You can replace the architecture (`x86_64`) and region (`us-west-2`) to look for other images.
If you know a specific Bottlerocket version you'd like to use, you can replace `latest` with that version.

You can also see all available parameters
[through the web console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/parameters/#list_parameter_filters=Path:Recursive:%2Faws%2Fservice%2Fbottlerocket).

## Launching your first instance

In order to launch a Bottlerocket instance into your ECS cluster, you'll first need some information about the resources in your AWS account.

### Subnet info

You should either have a default virtual private cloud (VPC) or have already
[created a VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/get-set-up-for-amazon-ecs.html#create-a-vpc)
in your account.

To find your default VPC, run this command.

> (If you use an AWS region other than "us-west-2", make sure to change that.)

Reviewer 4: Instead of giving this warning throughout the doc would it be better to remove `--region` from the example commands and at the top of the doc say they should export `AWS_REGION`? It makes the experience better from a copy/paste workflow and if someone has a default region they don't need to worry about it.

Author: I'm planning to leave this as-is for now to keep it consistent with the EKS-focused guide.  We can make larger changes to both guides separately.

(Exported environment variables can also be more confusing to reproduce later; having an explicit command-line option helps for repeatability.)

```
aws ec2 describe-vpcs \
   --region us-west-2 \
   --filters=Name=isDefault,Values=true \

>    | jq --raw-output .Vpcs[].VpcId

Reviewer 4: `.Vpcs[].VpcId` should be in quotes so the shell doesn't interpret it and give an error. Same with line 93

`'.Vpcs[].VpcId'`

Author: What shell are you using that you're receiving errors with that?  The command as-written works fine for me with GNU bash 4.4.20.

Reviewer 2: zsh can fail in cases like this.

Author: Done
